So some characteristics,
it has a strong static type system.
So everything, we have a type,
if it's an integer,
it's an integer, cannot be a string,
as in other languages.
It has a C-inspired syntax.
However, that doesn't mean it's a super
set of C as other languages such as
objective C.
Or it's not actually based on C,
but it has some ideas,
for example,
we use code blocks with curly braces.
So if you have an if, if you have
a function, you open curly braces,
you close curly braces.
Well, that's coming from C.
There are other languages, Ruby, Python.
Not following that, okay?
So have that in mind.
Do you need to know C to get into Go?
No, not really.
But if you have ever played
with other C-based languages,
maybe you will feel at
home with some ideas.
That can be Java, C Sharp,
C, C++, even JavaScript,
PHP, all those languages
are coming from From C.
It's compiled, so
actually we need to compile the code.
We developers, we have to compile
the code to execute that.
It's multi-paradigm, so if you ask me,
is it functional programming?
Is it object-oriented programming?
Actually it's up to you.
It's not actually forcing us
into any paradigm in particular.
The idea is to keep this simple, so
we should try to keep this simple, okay?
It's garbage-collected, do you know what
garbage collection means in your language?
If anyone wants to, yeah,
>> Getting rid of the memory, or
the objects that are stored in memory
that are no longer needed automatically,
>> Okay, and
you add the word objects there
that we don't have here.
But that's fine.
No, no, it's fine.
So yeah, that's correct.
So actually a language that is a garbage
collector means that when you create
a variable, it doesn't need to be
an object, it can be any variable.
When you don't need it anymore,
you don't need to care about that, okay?
And unless you have
ever played with C++ or
other languages objective C,
or even Swift for iOS.
They don't have garbage collection.
You are used to that, so
maybe you even didn't know that there
were languages that they don't have that.
There are some languages when
you create the variable,
you also need to delete the variable
when you don't use it anymore.
That was the idea originally.
You create something, you delete something
before closing your app for example.
Because if not,
you were creating memory leaks.
That is pieces of memories of your
computer, of the operating system that
are occupied with data, but
no one is actually using the data anymore.
So after a while, your computer, has
no more enough memory for running other
apps because it's occupied with parts
that are not used anymore, okay?
Anyway, we do have garbage collection and
the garbage collection system,
it's simplifying.
It's like,
think about the separate process.
That is looking into your memory and
see if you have some variables or
objects that you have created in
memory that no one is pointing at.
If no one is pointing at an option
in memory, it's like, well,
no one is going to use that anymore.
So, the garbage collector
will delete that from memory.
So, it's a process that deletes data
that is not being used anymore.
And why is that you don't have any points?
Well, because the variable that was
pointing to that thing loses the scope.
So I mean the function ends or
maybe you assign a different object so
the the previous one has no links anymore,
things like that.
So we don't need to care about that.
So we create a variable and we don't care.
I mean, I'm overreacting.
We should care about memory management,
but in terms of deleting the variables
that we create, that's not something
that we need to do explicitly.
It's fast, okay?
Remember, that was the goal.
So it's fast and
that's why there are a lot of Go
developers are really excited about Go.
And when you say no, let's move to
NodeJS and say, no, no, no, no, no.
We keep with Go.
And typically it's because it's faster.
It's faster than any other platform,
for example for web services or
micro services things like that.
And it creates a single
binary compilation.
So we compile and we create one file.
So it's not based, I mean you can
do things but by default it's not
based on for example DLLs on Windows or
dynamic libraries where you
have to create several compilations and
then link them somehow.
Here, the idea is to make things simple.
We create one executable output
from our code, okay?, Make sense?
So it's not really important, but for
you to get into the mindset
of the timeline of Go,
the pressure has started in 2007 but
it was publicly announced in 2009.
I was there at Google IO when
they announced that, and
we were all kind of confused
about why do we need and
use that language we weren't actually
understanding the reasons behind this.
First version appeared 2012
to around 10 years ago.
And right now we are in version one,
the training, okay?
So if you make all the calcs,
it's kind of two versions per year, okay?
However, these updates are minor updates.
In fact, there is a rule,
at least within Go 1.x,
that every new version will be
always fully backwards compatible.
Because they want to reduce
the risk of that in the future.
So if they add a feature, and
sometimes they're adding features,
sometimes they're not adding big features,
it's just solving bugs or
increasing the performance of
that function, things like that.
But sometimes they're adding
some minor updates and
sometimes some new things
into the language.
For example, they have other generics.
We will explain what they are later, but
they have other generics in a 1.18
that it was released like a year ago.
So that's like a new language feature,
but it's not like other
languages that are evolving
like faster compared with Go.
Kotlin, Swift, even Java today,
they are trying to keep evolving
the language all the time.
But that also adds risks and
also adds some kind of stress to
developers that they need to keep
being updated every six months.
So let's see you Angular.
Now we have Angular 25,
let's see what's new.
They're changing how they're doing things,
so
I need to test if my code
will still work or not.
I need to make changes.
Well, that stress shouldn't be here,
and you can safely update to
a new version of Go when it appears or
you can keep it with the one you have.
You just read the change log and
see if the updates that they have
added are going to increase
performance on your app or something.
But they're trying to keep backwards
compatibility all the time.
There is only one exception to that, is
that if they found a security or something
like that, they might change the API and
they will like give us the warning.
Okay, you know what?
We have to change that API because that's
not typically the normal situation.
What about Go 2,
there is a project to create the Go 2.
Like, okay, but it's going to
be like a new language again,
and it's not going to force
us to move into Go 2.
And maybe it will never happen.
So we don't know.
So it's not like, yeah,
in 2025 we will release Go 2, no.
It's like a parallel project saying,
okay, with the experience that
we have gathered over a decade with Go 1,
can we do something better or different?
But it's going to be a different language,
and
it's not going to be backwards compatible,
okay?
So but there is nothing that says
that that's gonna change quickly.